---
title: "Hat-Hayden-Week-20"
author: Hayden
date: 2019-02-22T20:58:40-08:00
tags: ["Hayden Wilcox", "HAT", "Week 20"]
draft: false
---

At the beginning of the week, I was pulled off the monitoring work that I had been working on the week prior in order to assist in the creation of the ECS. However, there was some confusion regarding the structure of our system, and which parts we needed or wanted to keep and which we needed to create. This left me in a confusing position as to where I could be assigned whilst my teammates experimented. Eventually it was determined that I should work on an AWS Lambda script in order to automatically update the ECS with a new task definition, each time one was added or updated to the ECR. There was then some additional confusion as to whether or not we were going to continue to use the ECR at all, utilizing the pipeline to update the ECS directly. This would require my script to only update the ECS with a new task definition. However, this method proved to be difficult to set up during this sprint, so the idea was abandoned and I was told to go back to my original plan. I began researching Amazon Lambda and Python syntax to prepare myself to implement the code. Unfortunately, I quickly realized that I had no idea where to start with my plan and was floundering. Luckily, I was able to contact my teammate who explained my position more clearly, and what needed to be done. I also went over his script for a project from the previous semester, and it was decided that I would base my new script off of his with some modifications to work with our needs.

Unfortunately, towards the middle of the week, I was somewhat set back with various projects from my classes and my progress on the function and related research slowed. It was at this time that plans once again became unstable, as we began questioning if we even needed the Lambda script with our new set up. I stopped completely and decided to focus my attention on my other classwork until I could be given a solid work order. At the time of writing this, we decided to utilize the Lambda script once more, however, not much progress has been made on the script. Now that I am free from my obligations to other classes for the time being, I am going to be working over this weekend and hopefully have the script ready by presentation time. If not, it will surely be finished during the beginning of the next sprint.
