---
title: "Matabit Mario Week 26"
date: 2019-04-12T17:34:47-07:00
draft: false
tags: ["Mario Kassab ", "Matabit", "Week 26"]
layout: 'posts'
---
# Week 26

This weeks goal was to research up on firewall builder and understand how it works so that we can understand the IP tables we have and fix the issue we are having with new firewall A and old firewall A. So first I want to run fwbuilder running on one of the servers to see what it contains as far as rules for the server. When I run the command fwbuilder I keep getting and error saying ```qt.qpa.screen:Qxbconnection: Could not connect to display. Could not connect to any X display```. From what I looked up and read online, this could be caused by a permission issue. After reading up on the ssh man pages the issue was solved, I found the -X option for ssh which enables X11 forwarding. I ran the command ```ssh X techlab@130.166.240.19``` to access the server than ran fwbuilder and the GUI screen for fwbuilder popped up.  I then loaded the .fwb file extension for the current IP tales we have to load all the rules and configuration professor Weigley created for the server. I checked the policy for the old A and B servers and I noticed the floating IP was assigned to fwa when we want it assigned to firewall A. There are 3 IP addresses right now conflicting with eachother. The current floating ip is assigned to .18, .19, and .21 when we only want it assigned to .19 (firewall A). The plan right now is to get familiar with fwbuilder to understand how it works. What we have in mind is to trash the old firewall rules and policy to build one from scratch. This way we can add the rules we want and are necessary instead of trying to search through all the rules we currently have. First I want to do is install firewall builder on my host machine that way I can see what firewall builder looks on a machine that doesn't have and rules or policies that way I can mess around with it and start adding rules and policies on my own. I installed firewall builder using the command ``` sudo apt-get install fwbuilder``` the version installed was 5.3.7. I ran fwbuiler and started creating a new firewall for firewall A. I found out one thing that fwbuilder has which is the discover option located in the help tab on fwbuilder. The discover option automatically goes into the server and gathers all the networking information it can find on the server for us. However, fwbuilder uses snmp to grab all the info and we don't have snmp currently installed and enabled on our servers for fwbuilder to grab the info. So I went ahead and installed snmp on the server using the command ```sudo apt-get install snmpd```. I ran the discover option once again and still no success with gathering all the info on the server. I am currently still trying to figure out the issue as to why and hopefully over the weekend I figure it out and have it ready for next week. At the same time I will be working on trying to get new policies and rules for firewall A. 
