---
title: "Matabit Thomas Week 18"
date: 2019-02-08T20:05:26-08:00
layout: 'posts'
tags: ["Thomas", "Matabit", "Week 18"]
draft: false
---

# Week 18
For week 18 I continued to take a closer look at the current iptables to understand how they are being used and how we might want to set them up once we transfer everything over to the new servers. Initialy I spent my time going through the iptables rules line-by-line and documenting in plain english what they are achieving for my own understanding. After taking a deeper look I began to notice several redundancies among different chains and even several rules that didn't make much since. Several chains that were being used contained the exact same set of rules, such as allowing allowing all traffic from firewall B to any outside destination or even several different chains that were being used to simply log and drop all packets. It didn't seem to make much sense to have redundant chains in our iptables so I knew it was something I would have to ask Professor Wiegley about. In addition to this, there were several stand-alone rules that I was unsure about their purpose. Some rules allowing traffic to unknown networks outside of CSUN, some accepting packets from a machine to itself, and others that seemed to just drop all packets trying to get through. After talking to Professor Wiegley about these questions, he let me know that he used a tool known as FWBuilder to build his firewalls. FWBuilder is GUI-based and allows you to create the rules in a GUI environment and is able to generate the configuration files needed to run the firewall. He advised me that iptables might not look as pretty as it could because of FWBuilder's method of generating config files because of its compatibility with many different systems. He said that he would like to leave the firewall rules the way they are and would like to figure out how to setup and automate the rules on the new server. This might be done by installing FWBuilder on a centralized server such as our VPN appliance and using that to keep track of iptables changes and to deploy those configurations to each firewall. Over these next couple weeks that's something I'll definitely be taking a look at to see if we can utilize FWBuilder to configure our firewall settings from a centralized location.

Other than that my group was able to meet down at the MDF to try to finish the setup of the new servers to the physical networks. We were able to determine where 3 out of the 4 network interfaces need to be plugged in but still need to determine where the last one which is a 10.0.47.X IP to allow communication between firewalls is supposed to get plugged in. We figured out that the connection on that port was showing the 10.0.47.X IP address while running an ifconfig command within Ubuntu but when using the Fluke tool to determine the network on that physical port it was showing up as a 130.166.47.X IP address. So that's something we still need to look into and figure out why that's happening.