---
title: "Matabit Thomas Week 26"
date: 2019-04-12T22:41:54-07:00
layout: 'posts'
tags: ["Thomas", "Matabit", "Week 26"]
draft: false
---

# Week 26
For this past week I worked on trying to figure out what about the setup on fwa was causing issues when trying to clone our gitlab repo over https to it. Each time I attempted to clone the repo using a personal access token, it would say that the connection to gitlab.com over port 443 timed out. I found this strange considering I had no issues cloning the repo on firewalla, firewallb, and fwb. I figured this must be some issue with the firewall settings even though it allowed https on fwb which supposedly use the exact same iptables configurations. After some further research into the matter we were able to determine that fwa is the only machine to have an active firewall running and conigured using FWBuilder. When looking up the iptables on every other machine, no rules are listed. This is why none of the other machines gave me any issues when cloning the repo and pushing over https.

So now I'm presented with the problem of either needing to find a way to modify the iptables to allow https access for gitlab or to find another way that is accepted by the current configuration to allow cloning and pushing to the gitlab repo. As far as other methods to work around it, I thought using SSH keys might be the trick. Using a test virtual machine, I generated a new SSH key and added it to my gitlab account. I chose to leave the rsa password blank so that it would hopefully allow automatic pushes from a script without having to manually enter the password. After doing this, I cloned a test gitlab repository to the machine, wrote a short script to create a new file and push it to the repo, and ran it to see if it would automatically push. Despite not setting an rsa password, it kept giving me authentication errors and would not push to the repo. I figured this must be because it is still exptecting user input despite not having any actual characters in the password. I attempted to look up how you can create user input using a bash script but did not have much luck. There looked to have possibly been an optional package that can be installed called "Expect" which may allow a bash script to enter uer input after a specified line is read but I need to do more research into that to test if it'll work on my test environment. If I can't get SSH keys to work I may have to speak with Professor Weigley about possibly modifying the iptables to allow https and see if that's something he's ok with doing or if he has any other suggestions for what I might be able to do. 