---
title: "Nickblog29"
date: 2019-05-03T23:22:12-07:00
draft: false
Categories: [Comp 481]
Tags: ["Nicholas Yoon", "Sandbox Worms"]
Author: "Nick Yoon"
---
I let the professor know that I wouldn't be able to attend class this week because of work. I was able to talk to my group members Yerden and Neel before going out of town to see what we'd focus on for our final project. I was interested in option 1 to get Chat Ops working, but my vote was outnumbered by my group members since they wanted to work on option 2 = Kubernetes. So the focus for this week was to research about Kubernetes, what it is, how it works, when and how it's used, etc. so I went ahead and did some initial research. I went on Youtube and watched several videos, went to the Kubernetes website and gathered some info, and also got a link to the EKS workshop for futher explanation. I created a Git repo and sent a link to the group and was hoping to get something uploaded by today, but unfortunately I wasn't able to get anything uploaded. From what I gathered, it sounds like Kubernetes is a container deployment and management service. Looks like we need to use Docker to build our containers and we use K8 services to manage how the containers are deployed. There's an API that sits in front of our K8 config that controls how code is deployed and services that sit in the back end to control scalability which provides a more efficient network environment. I know I'm missing some parts in there, but I think I got a basic idea of how it works. I definitely need to do some more research into how to get things working, but I saw that we need to use yaml files so I need to focus on that too. We plan on meeting with the professor on Monday as a group so it should be interesting. 