---
title: "Nickblog22"
date: 2019-03-08T20:32:10-08:00
draft: false
Categories: [Comp 481]
Tags: ["Nicholas Yoon", "Sandbox Worms"]
Author: "Nick Yoon"
---
I was finally able to get in touch with one of my group mates via Slack - Neel. So we were able to discuss what's going on with our schedules, why were not able to meet during regular times (because of work), and what the future plan is for our team. As far as I know, for now we're still working inside of our own virtual environments. We have yet to start using AWS and other cloud resources. To be honest, Neel is probably the strongest piece in our group and I needed to connect with him to get up on what our objectives are for each leg of the project. He seems to have a clear understanding of what we need to accomplish to reach the ultimate goal. Unfortunately, I haven't heard much from our other two group members so not sure if how they're doing on their tasks. Maybe they already know this stuff really well and don't need anyone's help, but I on the other hand have a hard time understanding some of this material sometimes so I try reaching out to some of our classmates - specifically John, even though he's no longer in my group. He seems to be the most responsive and whether or not he judges me on my level of knowledge, I would never know because he always seems to help me out without seeming too annoyed. Nonetheless, I appreciate all the help I can get and I honestly do try my best to absorb this information.

So far this week I've mainly been focusing on finishing up the ansible class assignment. I was able to create the sudo.yml file properly and confirmed it by deploying the playbook successfully, but I'm having trouble setting up my lamp.yml config file. I keep receiving a syntax error and can't seem to figure it out. I'll keep going at it, I'm sure it's something minor I'm overlooking. I was watching Linkin Learning videos for about three hours this morning trying to understand more about Ansible, read the Ansible documentation material on the website, and even looked at some examples of Ansible playbooks to get a better idea, but I'm still having a tough time fulliy comprehending all of it. I really appreciate that our Professor is starting to go through the motions and show us more examples first hand of the material we were exposed to last semester - I find it to be exciting and extremely helpful. 